It's just so stupid. You You stole that
from You stole my paper.
I stole your paper.
You stole my paper. Now you're
pretending like you're
You know what you've stolen this
morning?
What have I stolen?
Our time.
Our time. It's unbelievable. So, I want
you guys to know that,
guys. Warning. We haven't done ads yet,
but Aiden's about to do a [__]
20-minute Apple ad.
Open. Here it comes. Open on Atriarch's
computer right now is a PowerPoint
presentation that I am not kidding has
taken him the last 25 minutes to get
open on his laptop. That is not an
exaggeration. 25 minutes to pull it up
on your laptop.
Steve Jobs's schlong down your the ghost
of Steve.
The ghost of his
down your gullet, dude. It's insane.
Some of us want to break free from the
system, from the ecosystem that you
I think some of us want to record the
podcast.
Give me my paper back.
You don't even know how to read it. Doug
was saying you're probably swiping it
like
it's Coco Melon.
Okay.
Why won't the thing change? I can't turn
the volume up. I can't hear it.
That was 20 minutes for him. Dude,
you're looking for the volume button.
I'm next to two geriatric bucks.
Hey, what what did you read? What was
interesting in the paper? In the morning
paper today.
In the morning paper. I Okay, I read
something this weekend. Chachy BT told
me this. Do you know this? Every single
p four trees are taken down to produce
one newspaper. And you
you did this.
You chat GPT
and the CHBT query killed 15 more trees.
It was 20 total trees were killed for
this conversation.
Figuring out which trees were killed.
Yeah.
Oh, that's good.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, I it's funny because
this this first article on the FT
weekend printout that you have US jobs
slowdown backs rate cut call is is
actually what I want to talk about.
Yeah. One of our main topics. Jobs.
Wait, wait, wait. Hold on, hold on.
Dildos.
You want to open with dildos?
Let's open with dildos. This is what the
people are here for. Okay. Okay. Perry,
can you pull this up?
Um, well, hold on. Let's check out the
retention rate on this episode after
this launches. All right. We're going to
see a massive dip. We're going to see a
massive dip after this. Okay, there have
been dur during the WNBA games the past
week. Sadly, this is not funny. Nobody
laugh. People have been throwing dildos.
Do not laugh. People have been throwing
dildos onto the WNBA courts during
basketball games. And you can now bet on
the color of the next dildo that will be
thrown onto a WNBA court. I was
laughing. I had a different joke in my
head. It wasn't related. So, there's
this whole gamble going on. You can bet
real money on whether it will be a pink
dildo, a purple dildo, a blue dildo. And
then there was this great tweet that I
saw called infinite money glitch, which
is you buy a WNBA ticket, 30 bucks, you
buy a blue dildo for $15, you max bet
blue dildo at $5,000, you throw the blue
dildo onto the court, and you've made
$69,000.
Someone is going to do this.
Yeah, I don't really know what would
stop somebody from doing this.
And I think this is a great kickoff of
just the creativity around the job
market right now. And what's it looking
like, Aiden?
I think this is a kickoff. This intro
and this has shown that we're all
unemployable. So, we have to talk to
other people about what the job market
is actually like.
Do you teach? We're here teaching.
Okay. I have one more thing to say about
these dildos before we move on to the
actual job discussion, which is that
I need to crash out on this, but I
should be a longer subject on on not
people throwing the dildos, whatever on
this whole um movement to get mad at. I
don't watch the WNBA. I don't care about
the WNBA. I don't watch it. But what
they're asking for is just the same
percentage of revenue that players get
in other leagues. It's not it's a
smaller amount of revenue. I understand
that. But they want the percent of the
revenue. And people keep throwing in
this stupid Hollywood accounting
[__] that they're not making money.
The revenue has 10xed in two years.
There's enough money, but they keep
spending it on uh things for the owners
or marketing or private jets. And then
they say, "Oh, there's no money left for
the players." But the players should get
a percentage of revenue because before
the expenses come out, which what they
do in every other league, it it it's not
going to be as much. Of course, not as
watched as much. But the fact that
they've gotten like most sports fans to
agree with this cartel-like behavior
towards the employees of the league is
crazy. It's crazy. It's so stupid. I
don't care about I'm not I'm passionate
defender of the WNBA. It's just very
obvious that they just want the same
percentage. I mean, I haven't mathed it
out, but this conversation has existed
about the WNBA or women's sports for a
long time.
And maybe maybe like five years ago.
Yeah,
maybe there's an argument there. I don't
know. But but now we the WNBA is
gigantic. So many people watch and go to
the games. Like it is exploded in
popularity. the viewership uh the
viewership is like comparable to normal
NBA games now which is wild and for for
some games and uh I think that is wild
to begin with and people are still like
yeah rookie contracts 70k a year.
Caitlyn Clark's rookie contract is 70k a
year. She makes less money than Nick
Yingling does.
Well that's for the contract
that's deserved. Nick Yingling's a hard
is hard on this [__] field.
A lot of value.
No I you guys have heard of Hollywood
accounting, right? where like you might
be an actor and you're like I want a
percentage of of the profits of a movie
and then somehow Spider-Man 2 never made
any money even though it's a you know
Lord of the Rings never made any money.
That's what they're doing with this.
They just keep saying so what you do is
you get a percent of revenue. You get a
percent of what the thing actually makes
before they take out expenses and that's
what they do in every other league.
That's what the NBA players get 50% of
revenue and it goes to the players and
the rest and they can decide what they
do with the rest. The league can decide
what they do with the rest. But here
they're like we'll give you a percent of
the profits. Oops. there's no profits.
And then everybody repeats this same
line like it's the [__] like
there's no profits. Like of course you
can't get paid. It's ridiculous. There's
it's making hundreds of millions of
dollars. There's enough to pay the
players. I just want to crash out on
that cuz uh I think people are
emotionally attached to these people not
getting paid. No matter how good the
attendance gets or no matter how much
money it makes, they just really enjoy
it. And I want to tell you it's [__]
stupid.
What What does this have to do with
dildos?
Well, this is sorry the WNBA. That's why
they're throwing dildos. Is that why
they throw dildos? I didn't know why
they're throwing dildos.
That's why they're throwing
the the players started wearing like pay
us what you owe us and then everyone
started throwing dildos on the court
like it's
that's so annoying.
You could have let me villain share
this. Could have been coincidental.
Could have been two dildo
loving guys. I don't two guy or I
presume guys who threw dildos and like
they could just be maybe they do this at
every sports game. I don't know.
They could just be normal shitty guys,
right? They don't have to be normal
shitty totally misogynistic guys.
No, I think the action is inherently
misogynistic. Let's be clear. Let's be
it's inherently misog
might not be politically or economically
motivated.
Ah, it's simply to be shitty.
It's simply to be shitty.
Imagine catching the guy and they're
like, "Why do you like is this in
response to the to the pay issues that
have been going on?" And it's just like
some dude he's like, "No, I just [__]
I think you should be paid more
actually. Really? I just hate women, but
they should get bad.
I just don't like women's sports.
Uh yeah, it reminds me of when uh I
think it was the US women's soccer team
was fighting for higher pay a few years
ago and they were getting interviewed
about it on John Stewart or something
like that. And the all of the classic
counterarguments of equalizing pay to
the men's team are are getting pushed
back on. Like people are like the the
women's team's not as good or women's
soccer isn't as competitive. But for the
women's men's or the the women's US team
specifically compared to the men's US
team specifically, the women's team is
incredibly successful, right? Like we
win most of the international
tournaments or we make it to the finals
of most of the international
tournaments, bring in a ton of revenue.
uh and compared to our men's team,
they're they're very uh similar in terms
of the impact and money that they bring
in, but they're paid drastically less.
So, I think all these questions or ideas
of people who come in and they're like,
well, it's like it just doesn't make any
sense or it's not as competitive or they
don't bring in in as much money. It's
the No, they're not being unreasonable.
They're asking for just a pay that
reflects the value.
I just want to be super clear. I don't
think Kaitlin Clark should get paid what
LeBron gets paid. What I'm saying is
like the NBA brings in 20 billion, 10
billion goes to the players. That's the
contract they have is 50%.
That's what it if the if the WNBA brings
in 200 million, 100 million goes to the
players. You just make that a line item
that goes there first.
Otherwise, they'll never get paid.
Caitlin Clark is like mind-blowing to me
because it's like you enter the league,
you're a national phenomena. you
instantly, whoever signs you, right? You
make your you make up your salary in a
easy a day in jersey sales, ticket
sales. Like your your impact on the
whole league and uh because of the
rookie contract rules,
you're at 70k a year. That's I I
understand she's making tens of millions
from endorsements and deals and all of
that stuff. It's not like she's not
finding a way to get compensated. But
the fact that the league itself I I I
found out last week that the highest
paid salary in the W the entire WNBA
right now is like $256,000
which is uh you know maybe reflect.
I don't but I don't know. All I know is
that they're just getting they're
just do it the same way. Give them the
same revenue.
That's what I'm saying. Just do it the
same percentage way and then you can do
whatever you want. They can get paid
$10.
What if the guys were throwing dildos in
protest? Maybe that's true. Maybe these
guys are heroes
and we've considered that they
they just really need to workshop the
intention.
It's like guys, guys love the energy.
Let's Why don't we
throw something else?
Well-intentioned dumb misogynistic guys
who want to support women but do it in
an under like in a backhanded way.
I mean, they they bought a ticket.
They bought a ticket.
They're not getting paid. So, I was I'll
throw I'll interrupt the game. I'll
throw like a
They're like Colin Kaepernick kneel for
the anthem. We will throw dildos for the
players.
God willing. That's the situation.
Did is um Jobs.
Okay.
Yeah. Before we got way off topic. We
were talking for like 15 minutes. I have
one topic that I do want to touch on
before we get into the experience of
applying for a job right now. The jobs
report that just came out in the US. I
wanted to ask you Atriarch about
we were discussing off the pod how a
report had come out that for the first
time in a while or for the first time
all year the June budget
was a surplus. It was reported back and
there were some early reports of tariff
revenue starting to come in
and creating this surplus for the first
time. And so I wanted to ask you, can
you lay that out? Explain it a little
more because I have not
We're need you to pull something up and
probably have to cut it down. Can you
pull I mean I I like this image first.
Welcome to the golden age. Thanks to the
leadership of POTUS, the US has
generated over 150 billion in tariff
revenue in the past six months. Look at
that fist. Strong.
Anybody?
What?
Oh, high fives. Yeah.
Old age, baby.
And I've paid some of them.
Uh that's that's half of that's mogul
shirts. All right. So, this is the this
is the bipartisan deficit tracker. Now,
I'm gonna maybe this is confusing, but
I'll go through it. See that purple line
right there? The the pinkish purple one
right in the middle 25. That is our
current deficit for this year. Okay.
That's how much we've spent by each each
month. Okay.
Okay.
So, uh around this time last year,
we had spent $1.2 trillion more than we
made in 2024. That's that's what we were
in in June. Now, we're at 1.3. I just
want to be super clear. But you look, so
when this line goes up, when a month
where it goes up, that's a bad month.
That's a month where we spent more than
we took. When it goes down, which it
happens sometimes in all these different
years, that's a that's a surplus month.
What they've been doing, Scott Bessant,
Trump, all these uh right-wing talking
heads have been going around and saying,
"This is our first June budget surplus
in 20 years. It's just June. There's
been surpluses in April, in July, in
February, in every now and then you'll
have a surplus month. It's pretty
standard, but the overall year is bad.
But because there was a payment that
fell on a weekend in May that ended up
going to June, we had our first sorry,
it paid in May instead of June. So the
the government made its payments a
little early. So we had a really bad
May. As you can see, the May spikes up
to and we had a a surplus in June. And
so it just it landed on a weird month.
And so now we have a surplus in June for
some reason and they're saying like wow
things are drastically different. I
promise you first of all we have spent
more this year than the bad year of 2024
and by the end of the year this number
will still be much higher. It'll be
worse than every other year maybe than
2020 and 2021.
Can you explain? Wait, I'm still
confused. Why doesn't the graph go down
for that month then? Because the
spending
for which month?
For for June, right?
It did. You see see between May and
June.
Am I looking at the wrong
You're looking at that one.
it goes down very slightly and that is
what they're calling the first June
budget surplus in 20 years but they're
like they're like soft saying June and
they're making it seem like we got our
first surplus in 20 years like we've
turned something around there's nothing
different we are still spending way more
than we make and by the end of the year
we will have spent like one and a half
to2 trillion dollars more than we
brought in
and this is all because of revenue that
was meant to be paid out in May that
fell into June
and no it it it was paid early it paid
at the end of May instead of the
beginning of June.
Okay,
so we got the payment out of the way,
which is why you can see like between
April and May on this graph on the
purple one. Huge spike.
That was a it was a bad month. We added
a lot to the deficit, but now we had a
slightly easier June. So we cleared uh
the tariff revenue helped a little bit,
but it's very small in comparison.
Okay. So why if I if I was die hard for
Bessant and the boys?
Yeah.
Why couldn't this be indicative of it
continuing to go down after this? Could
this not be the start of a trend?
I it maybe you know what by the end of
the year if this purple line is plunged
and we're just swimming in tariff
revenue that's fine but just it you
could even scroll down. I think they
actually address this directly. And in
fact they say um
yeah the federal government ran a
monthly surplus of 26 billion in June.
However, this is because a government
payments typically due June 1st shifted
to May this year. Accounting for this
timing shift, we actually ran a monthly
deficit of 71 billion. Okay, just to be
clear. And then it says we're going to
have a probably a worse one in July. So,
uh, looking ahead, barring any major
conditions, change in economic
conditions, the government will likely
run a larger deficit in July. So, the
idea this is some large trend is, I
think, untrue. And I think it's just
this weird little statistical blip that
is being turned to a story that we've
turned something around. The fact is,
under Biden and under Trump, we spend
way, way more than we make. And in fact,
the big beautiful bills only made it
worse. So outside of the the red and the
black line there, which is our worst
years ever, 21 and 20, this is like this
is the worst year. This this year is
terrible. We're we're we're at some of
the worst America's ever been in terms
of spending more than we make. And to
pretend like we're not is a is a joke.
So I just wanted to address that. I've
talked about this on my own stream, but
I'm glad you brought up this question.
It's uh yeah, it's it's actually makes
me really disappointed in Scott Besset
because I'm I'm a Scott Bessant I
wouldn't say fan, but I like I respect
him and I read him before he got his job
and he's really he knows what he's doing
when he goes up there and says the June,
you know, he slips it in. He knows what
he's doing and it's this is not a
surplus.
Okay, two two questions follows. One, it
looks like that because of the drop to
June that we're actually comparable to
the previous two years. If you look at
where the dot is on June.
That's right.
Uh so the it sounds I what I heard you
saying is like we are it's worse than
previous years. To me it seems like if
you look at where the dot is on June we
are comparable to 2023 and 2024 right
now.
But from what they're saying in the
report the expectation is that even the
following month it's going to bounce
back aggressively above the other.
But I the way I would read this so far I
mean it jumped up aggressively last year
in July. I mean, for people who are
listening online, basically we're
looking at how much money we've spent
this year, how much, you know, how much
deficit we're in this year versus
previous years.
Yeah.
As far as I can tell, this is like
exactly this at least very similar.
It's very similar in line with 23 and
24. That's correct.
Yeah.
But, you know, as I said, but also as
Trump said or Scott Besson said, these
Biden deficits are unsustainable.
They're horrendous.
They are as bad as the
They're as bad. They've approved
nothing.
Yeah. I guess it is kind of a weird
thing where Biden's last two years were
some of the more ridiculous spending
that has ever happened. So the idea that
if we're meeting that as the bar that it
doesn't it's not even remotely good.
Yeah,
those were terrible and they were
rallied against rightly by Scott Besson
and you know they would have a trillion
dollar deficits every hundred days and
it's like we're in the same zone and by
the end of the year you know my
expectation is that the the 25 number is
going to be higher than 23 and 24 just
based on the big beautiful bill and the
tax cuts and so we'll see. I I don't
know but I I just it's certainly not
better and uh
and they're implying that it is.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I have another
question. So, so this tweet by the White
House, this was I think last week. They
tweet so much. I tried to find this
tweet again today and there was like 300
tweets I had to go through. My god. Um,
and so, uh, they basically said, "We've
this year we've gotten 150 billion of
tariff revenue." So, this is the first
half of the year. We're halfway through,
right? A little more. 150 billion. In
theory, that means we we will be making
300 billion by the end of the year in
tariff revenue that wasn't there before.
You know, asterisk asterisk. As a
reminder, the way I like to think about
this just simplifies things. Every year
the US government spends $2 trillion
more than we make. If we can get that
down to zero, then at least we aren't
losing more money every year. That is
the goal, right? So 150 billion already
and then 300, let's say if you double it
by the end of the year, that's a decent
chunk, right? That's that's not bad in
terms of working down the deficit. And
what I was thinking about is while they
certainly haven't explained it like
this, as we've talked about, tariffs are
basically attacks on American consumers.
This isn't money that is appearing out
of thin air. This 150 billion is like
Americans have paid this. And what I was
wondering is like was it their intention
that with the big beautiful bill they
cut taxes a lot which loses revenue for
the United States but they're basically
just introducing a different type of tax
with tariffs. And so even though they're
they're portraying it as like look you
have all freedom from money and we're
shutting down unfair trade deals. Really
what they're doing is saying we'll lower
your income tax, we'll increase your
tariff tax. Does that feel like it makes
sense? Do you think that's what Bessant
is maybe doing here?
That was part of the rationalization
when uh when we discussed the big
beautiful bill. They did say they were
insisting that even though this is
creating such a massive deficit on
paper, the revenue is to be made up by
the tariff changes that were made. But
it doesn't
they they also but they keep framing it
as like tariffs are great for the
Americans and low taxes are great for
the Americans. And I think probably
internally they were like, "Look,
tariffs are not going to be good for the
average American. The tax be good. Maybe
these offset." And so I'm wondering if
there's like a little more thought to it
than maybe we thought.
Yeah, maybe. But the problem is that the
tariff is a tax on people that buy and
consume regular cheap goods, right?
So it's like the average person is
paying these these taxes and the tax
cuts are primarily on wealthier people.
So, we've replaced, you know, taxes on
corporations and the rich with a tax on
you buying toys from China and buying,
you know, uh, steel from other countries
and buying, you know, it's just uh it
it's it's worse. But, whatever. I mean,
let's listen, all this would be fine,
you know, if our numbers two trillion
and we're raising some tariff revenue.
My expectation is that this is going to
cause problems in the job markets. We're
going to raise less money. We're gonna
have fewer people employed and GDP
growth and jobs numbers. Yeah, that and
we talk about that. So, let's talk about
problems in the job market.
The job market. Yes.
Problems in the job market. Okay.
Something interesting happened uh
recently. Uh on August 1st, a report was
released by the Department of Labor uh
and the under the commissioner uh Erica
Mkafer. Mkintofer
I don't know her last name. Uh and this
jobs report noted that through July
there was only an additional 73,000 jobs
created and it also notably reduced the
number of jobs that they had initially
reported from the previous two months.
So uh they had previously said that in
May there was 144,000 jobs that had been
created and in June 147,000 jobs created
and those were reduced to 19,000 and
14,000 respectively which is a massive
massive drop.
Also can you guys cuz I didn't look into
this much specifically is the idea that
the government estimates the amount of
jobs that are created and they're like
this is what we think is happening and
then a month later they look at what
actually happened and they what does the
revision mean? like what what's the
process here for how it changes that
much.
I mean the short version is that as more
time passes more data becomes available
to accurately estimate these things.
So they retroactively go back and say we
were wrong here's the real number
and and these corrections are pretty
normal like this this happens
frequently. This going back into the
past to correct data based on new
information that we get happens all the
time. Okay.
What was particularly shocking about
this was the scale of the revision. So
the amount that this got reduced by and
I think just looking at the numbers this
feels pretty scary, right?
Yeah. Can you pull up slide four
actually because it describes visually
what you were just saying. So slide four
I drew what the numbers were when they
first announced. So you can see there
was 144,000 new jobs revised down to 19,
147 down to 14. And when these numbers
were announced, these were celebrated.
These were like, you know, good good
numbers. Jobs are in the right
direction. We have we have hundreds of
thousands of new jobs pouring into
America. And now the revision is such
that 250,000 less jobs than they
thought. These were pretty terrible
months. In fact, you can see the worst
months in recent history. Like uh
terrible job growth.
And the theory as to why these there's
been such a sharp falloff from my
understanding
because she's a liberal cuck.
She is that well that's coming in at
number one.
Okay,
that was the watch mojo number one.
Yeah. Uh and then uh another thing that
uh that I had seen was shorter the staff
that is available to capture and
calculate the data across the board at
departments like this or in other parts
of the government that produce relevant
data to calculate these numbers have are
increasingly short staffed. There's been
a lot of staff cuts over the years
because of the Doge cuts that had
happened earlier on. So there's fewer
federal employees like managing and
interacting with uh data that uh informs
this type of reporting. And then also uh
there is a huge difference in the
expected amount of seasonal labor that
was supposed to come in. So during the
summer months there's a huge amount of
expected summer work or seasonal work
and this excludes farm work it
mentioned. uh but that boost in seasonal
employment is not happening at all and
it's way way lower than expected and it
does get into the details of what you
know sectors are loosely uh losing
positions and what sectors are uh
increasing their hiring still the only
place that's seeing big leaps in in
hiring is in healthc care sectors
healthcare sectors are really desperate
and stretched for people right now and
uh I think specifically
uh like elder ly care or uh taking care
of
a nation sick and the jobs are only to
get rid of to take care of the boomers
with money. Um yeah, the jobs revised
down is like construction is down,
manufacturing is down, uh retail's down,
like every job that would be considered
um to do well in a good economy is all
being revised down. And the only thing
up is health care and then some
government like like teacher jobs. Like
those are the only things that are
growing. And so uh all private sectors
are down. Private sector employment is
down. It's it's a bad report. and
in well this is the this is the crazy
thing in the wake of this report and the
adjustments of these numbers uh Miss uh
Mickarfer or I apologies woke you call
her what it is
it's it's a tough name to say Miss Woke
uh apparently was fudging the numbers
and Trump has just fired her uh this is
to me insane. you I I feel like this is
the type of thing that I and I know this
sits within a sea of actions and I know
this isn't the first red flag or
something along the way. I just think it
is so insane to read a headline like
this about the American president. It
speaks so much to the situation that I
think we have arrived in where the
president of the country gets a labor
report that he doesn't like that
indicates that he's doing a bad job and
then he just fires her and then says she
made up all the numbers while he also
pressures the chairman of the Federal
Reserve to lower interest rates to
stimulate the economy. So it's like to
me it's like which one is it? Are we do
we have a record-breaking economy that
is doing things it's never done before
like you say all the time? Well, then
why do we need to lower the interest
rates? Why are we you doing everything
you can to ou Jerome Powell from power?
No, I I think you made a really good
point there. I just want to explain if
you're if you're more casual on interest
rates and your eyes glaze over or
whatever. You know, Trump has been
really hammering Jerome Pow lower
interest rates. And when you do that,
it's a sign that the you know, like if
you raise them, that means inflation is
the biggest problem. And if you lower
them, that means employment is the
biggest problem. Like that's that's the
general. So the only reason you'd lower
them is if you thought, "Oh man, the
economy the jobs market's getting really
bad." So this report is a blessing to
everything Trump has been saying. Like
he could have pointed this and said,
"Look, we need to lower interest rates.
Jobs are terrible." But instead, he is
calling it fake news. In fact, jobs are
great. We have tons of jobs, but also we
need to desperately lower interest
rates. It just doesn't it doesn't have
any logical throughine. Now I think you
have a thing you want to show from Ray
Dalio. So I wanna I want to present a
counterpoint with the normal caveat of
like look I don't deeply know or believe
this stuff but Ray Dalio who is the uh
CEO believe CEO well anyway head of
Bridgewater Capital. So he's considered
one of the most legendary investors of
all time. Somebody who at least Atro and
I respect a lot. We're going to be
reading his book on the Patreon where we
have a book club every month and there's
been some great episodes recently. You
can go check it out blah blah blah.
However um so he mentioned something and
he comes out. This is a trusted like
bipartisan guy guy guy guy guy guy guy
guy guy guy guy guy guy guy guy guy guy
guy guy guy guy who says I probably
would have fired the head of the Bureau
of Labor Statistics too that's cuz its
process for making estimates is
obviously obsolete and errorprone and
there's no good plan in the works for
fixing it goes on to talk more and then
he at the end he says like look if the
motivation from Trump firing this person
is political like he just doesn't like
what they're producing then that is
obviously not okay. So he acknowledges
that and let's be honest probably that
was most of Trump's uh you know
motivation right but looking at that
graph earlier the estimates originally
were let's say 150,000 jobs created and
then retroactively they go we were wrong
it was 15,000 to me as an uninformed
person seems like they did a shitty job.
If you are that far off, if you as the
head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics
are what like 10 times off in your
estimates and the the country is going
off of that and then a month later like
hey sorry I messed up. That's not
messing up a little bit. That's like
deeply and fundamentally being wrong to
a degree that's like you don't seem
competent. I say that as an outside
party who doesn't know the actual
process but that's what Ray Dalio is
expressing here as well of like look the
private markets understand the actual
numbers to a more accurate degree. Why
is the Bureau of Labor Statistics not
doing that either? Regardless of what
Trump is doing and why this doesn't seem
like it's being done done competently,
I'm curious what you guys think.
So, first full disclosure, this is an
argument that I need to spend more time
digging into because I don't understand
statistics well enough to to give it.
But reading through other people's
responses to this argument, because I do
think that this argument is really a lot
of people do feel this way. is like if
the revisions are this wild and if they
feel this inaccurate, if the process is
this bad, then how could they be doing a
good job to begin with? Has this
completely has this approach completely
fallen out of favor
from people from attempting to read
people who have a stronger grasp of
statistics than me? They're saying that
those people have a flawed understanding
of how these reports are put together.
Okay? And I think there is something
there's something underlying here that
I'm unable to explain to you about the
process by which these reports are put
together uh that that is missing or
difficult to do and not just because
these people are bad at their job. I
think that is something really important
and also like I said at the beginning
these revisions happen all the time and
they have happened for years. So the
fact that you're stepping up at now at
this time because of this uh in response
to this specific issue whereas like you
have years and years prior to this to
make something like
years and years of them doing a bad job.
It would be the counterargument.
Yeah. Because you could in my opinion
it's like you could have made this
decision three months ago, four months
ago if you were upset at the process by
how which it was done. And Trump has
also offered no explanation as to the
technicalities of why he's removing
this.
Obvious thing here, which is Trump has a
storied history of firing people who
don't do things what he the way he wants
them, right? So like like come on,
that's obviously what happened here. But
there is this argument of like why is it
this inaccurate?
Yeah.
Yeah. I want to jump in. Okay. So, uh
there's a couple things I can I can
totally agree. I've talked about this
well before Trump came into office that
the BLS has been consistently wrong and
consistently revising down and I want to
challenge one thing you said. You said
they they often, you know, it's it's
very standard to revise later. Yeah,
that's true. BL has been around for
decades, right? But for the longest
time, they would had a pretty even
amount of revising up and revising down.
They might undershoot it, they might
overshoot it. Recently, as in the past
few years, it has been a consistent
pattern of starting out too high and
then later quietly revising down, which
is a pattern that is um
woke.
I don't know if it's I don't know what
it is, but it's it's they're clearly
overstating the health of the economy.
Now, I don't mean that's I don't think
it's uh I I fully disagree with the
thing that it's like political or plan
or they're like sneakily changing the
numbers.
I think my understanding is that there's
two parts to it. Number one, survey data
has fallen off a cliff. People no longer
respond to the surveys they use to help
get an accurate data of the environment.
So, second thing, they've been job cut.
They've been slowly but surely squeezing
the number of people.
So, they have fewer people getting fewer
accurate data from response surveys.
That has made them less and less likely
to to be accurate. The second thing is
they use this thing called the birth
death adjustment. So they'll get the
survey data and they'll make some this
this thing called the birth death
adjustment. And what it's not about uh
births and deaths of humans, it's about
births and deaths of companies. So
basically they'll say like oh well we
know that there was a registration of
10,000 new companies. On average a new
company will hire seven people. So we're
going to say there was you know 70,000
new jobs. That's the idea that the birth
of a new company leads to this much
average new jobs. Well, it turns out
post,
let's say, COVID, but even before that,
in the in the smartphone era,
the birth of a new company is primarily
a single person Uber driver, a only fans
creator, a uh that is where the majority
of new company registrations are. And
so, they're still adding seven or six
new jobs to the to the economy.
So, I was going to ask be that I
understood this. And isn't that why the
overestimation is
is the consistent part? we're more
likely to be overestimating because this
is the gap.
They have but they have not adjusted
this obvious flaw in their data for now
years.
So again,
we just all know why Trump did this. He
hasn't even hidden it at all. He just
calls her woke news fake. He blame
it's it's not like he's like, you know
what, I think statistically there could
be some piece of the model. He very
clearly has actually there's there's
clips about probably I got to have it
here but in previous months when the
jobs numbers are good he he loss it he
praises it
okay I I I think maybe if I were to use
let's let's completely leave this
example right it's imagine imagine we're
in we're in China like a year ago
and uh we have a problem with rising
youth unemployment it's starting to
skyrocket there's a bunch of just young
university grads who have nowhere to go
they have no jobs to get this part of
the economy and the job market is really
struggling and we keep publishing the
increasing data from from internally
within the government, right? And and
that goes out to anybody in the world
can look at that data and see the rising
youth unemployment in China and then the
Chinese government decides we're not
going to make that or publish that
report anymore. And then I as a third
party Yeah. uh you Ray uh Ray uh Wong
say I I come in and I report it's like
well they they weren't that great at
reporting the youth unemployment
statistics all along like it probably is
good that they stopped making the report
and then revise it. It's like
maybe that's true
but the timing is
but the timing is crazy. you have chosen
specifically to do it now when even by
your own standard the problem has
existed for a long time. So even if you
were to take that argument
100% and I want to call out one specific
thing because Trump is has directly lied
on something he keeps saying about this
which he said this very partisan hack uh
right before the election was putting
great jobs numbers out for Biden and
then right after the election revised
them down 800,000 the biggest revision
ever and it's so clearly and and he
changed the month by one and it's so
annoying because they did do that major
revision down before the election one
month before instead of one month after
and so so it actually was really
damaging to Biden. I remember it cuz I
made a video about it at the time. It
was like right before the election they
said actually there was way fewer jobs
than thought and it really hurt Biden.
But he is saying it like they did it.
Listen, I do think they've been
consistently wrong and maybe you could
change it. But it just there's no doubt
in anyone's mind. We're all like playing
along like WWE or something like we know
why he did this.
He's like Thanos with the reality stone,
you know? He's like, "They turned down
the numbers."
All the Jinzy viewers perked up.
Yeah. Oh,
you know, he's like, "Reality is
whatever I want to make it." It's so
cool. He just tweets. Okay. His Twitter
is his reality stone and he just he just
does whatever he wants.
Yeah. It's [__] wild. So, I want to
um I want to, you know, I'm sure you
have more to say, but I want to kick
off. We're gonna talk about people's
actual experience in the job market. You
have actual interviews with people.
Yeah.
But I want to show something. So slide
eight is the unemployment rate which has
now ticked up to a local high of 4.2%.
However, if you hit the next slide, um
it's actually so the the orange line is
the unemployment rate. It's actually
relatively low. Like look how you know
four 4.1 4.2 is in the long scheme of uh
the past you know couple decades.
Okay. So for for audio listeners and
myself. So right now unemployment rate
is 4%. Right? Is that correct?
4.2. It's like
4.2
actually like one of the lowest of the
last 30 years. Like looks pretty good.
Now, one thing you'll notice on that
orange line is that when the
unemployment rate starts to tick up, it
usually doesn't stop until you're in a
recession. You like you can
you can see the examples in the past. So
that would be 2001 over there, spikes in
2001, goes up in 2008, spikes in 2008,
goes up in COVID, huge spike. So there's
rarely a situation you can see on this
entire graph where it goes up and then
goes down. When it starts rising, it's
called the psalm rule. basically says if
over three months you're seeing rising
unemployment it's a good trigger of a
recession but and again Claudia S has
disputed it around this because this is
postcoid and things are weird so I want
to say this white line is surveys of
jobgoers on how likely hard how hard it
is for them to find and keep a job over
the next six months basically they're
saying you'll notice for all of 30 years
of history this white line and this
orange line have stayed pretty lock step
they've stay like survey goers have been
pretty good at saying when things are
good or bad. They understand
based on the actual unemployment date
data.
Yes. Yeah. Like you can there's a good
there's a strong connection between what
they're saying and what we're seeing on
the actual data around COVID around 2018
2019 and beyond. There's been this
massive divergence this big gap. And
what my again this is the work of like
Mike Green. I don't want to take credit
for, but the theory is that this gap is
because of things like the gig economy,
like Uber, like like uh Only Fans, like
all this stuff that has made people no
longer file for unemployment even when
they've lost their job because it's not
worth the hassle and they can get more
money quicker by just plugging into the
gig economy, but their jobs are still
lost because this survey is about like
real jobs. And so based on this graph,
if the orange line was tracking the
white line like it had done
historically, we would be closer to like
a six, seven, eight% unemployment. We we
were much higher. And that is the
economy that people are feeling. But
that is not what the data is showing. So
if you go to the next line, I just want
to the la next slide. Last thing I'll
say again, I'm not a statistician. This
is off of work of people smarter than
me, but I've done my best to really
understand it. This black line on this
one is um this all this data comes from
the few states where you're not allowed
to drive Uber under 25.
So it gives us a really rare insight
into what happens when you get
unemployed and you can't drive Uber.
Like say you're 24 year old, you get
unemployed.
So you'll notice previously the black
line, this is people who can't drive
Uber 16 has always been under the orange
line. Okay? It's always been less pre
just now it is higher. So uh people who
are 16 to 24 in few states where this
has happens they are having a worse
unemployment rate than people who can
drive who that drive Uber. This is like
a weird statistical anomaly that is
showing that like in in the few areas we
can see the difference. Uber is making a
massive difference. People are that can
do it are not filing for unemployment
and so the data is being skewed. So, I
just want to bring this up uh just to
show that I think a huge part of this is
the gig economy. And I I've I've
surveyed my own viewers and many of them
that are recently employed said it's
such a it's such a massive hassle to go
through all the paperwork to file for
really meager unemployment benefits that
they might and also you can't claim them
while you're driving Uber.
So, you have to choose one or the other.
Yeah. And it's much easier. So I all
this to say that I think my theory is
that the labor market is already sounds
bad. It is worse than that. It is worse
than what we are getting at. But I think
we're going to hear from actual people.
Maybe Aiden if you have like
Yeah.
Can you give us your context because you
brought this topic up like this is your
Yeah. I mean, I the main thing that's
been sitting with me is I feel like
anecdotally, I've been seeing this
unfold over the past two years just in
group chats uh of personal friends or
people I know where they share
experiences of what it's like to apply
for jobs or finding a job. Most of these
people in their early 20s to early 30s
and what that experience is like right
now. And I reached out to uh our
Discord, which you can join if you check
out patreon.com.
uh but getting a surveying a bunch of
people through there and then also
asking a bunch of personal friends what
their experiences are actually like
right now and uh across a bunch of
different industries. So one per
starting in tech which I think has
notably suffered in the last couple
years uh an example like a friend who is
an engineer somebody who was looking for
a job for 9 months and just managed to
recently get one in that time putting
together 500 plus applications. Jesus.
Uh managing uh mostly to get a few
interviews through either recruiting
opportunities that didn't translate into
anything or uh a friend of a friend who
actually results in the application
seeing more than just submitting it,
right? And then uh just talked to a
friend who's a UX researcher. She was
out of work for a year and a half
searching for jobs that whole time and
she finally landed a gig recently. But
before she got this full-time gig, she
was applying to a position at this
competitor to Kindle, she was saying,
and she landed the interview. She was
one of five people to get interviewed.
There were 500 people who applied to
that position, that one part-time
position at this company. And she, from
her perspective, she'd been looking for
work for so long that I kind of need to
take anything. I'll apply to this
part-time job instead of a full-time
one. I'm insanely overqualified. I have
like six years of experience in this
field. I worked at a successful tech
company before this. Uh, and let me see
if I get this job. She doesn't get that
gig even though she's incredibly over
overqualified. The person who gets it
out of the five is a person with 10
years of experience in their field and
had worked at Kindle before this for a
part-time position.
and she's, you know, she's managed to
land on her feet now, but um another
friend who is uh he he does like
analytics work. So, he initially wanted
to do like sports analytics, get into
something like the NFL or uh you know,
you know, a traditional sport
environment, right? He uh he had a an
internship with a company that was in
this space for a while. It ends in July
of last year and he was hoping to
leverage that into either into a
position in the industry in general or
at the same company but neither happened
and he widens what he's applying for
over time. Different like general
corporate analysis positions or
corporate analytics positions.
Yeah, take anything.
Uh and we'll take anything. He sent over
600 applications in the 11th month
period and he just got a job last month.
Uh and then uh for people in uh like
somebody who does like biology or works
comes from like the field of biology,
worked in research is uh at some sort of
like biotech company. Now I think he had
uh applied to about 50 jobs before
getting one he said but only got it
because of a of a referral from a
professor that he had worked with
before. Um, and a big issue in this
industry this year is that all the
cancellation of like federal funding and
grants that came with the cuts at the
beginning of the year affects the whole
world of academia and research. And he
said because that part of the industry
is so tied into the private industry,
it's had effects on their ability to
hire uh in that world as well. And he
also noted that with all the changes to
uh visas and immigration uh this year
that a lot of like student visas and
H-1B visas that fill out a lot of this
work uh are not getting renewed. So a
lot of these international uh people
that work in these jobs or at these
companies aren't getting hired back
anymore. He also noted that uh as of
this year international workers uh
aren't eligible to receive grants for
for funding in any of these uh science
fields that he works in. specific to
biology said and uh I asked him I was
like say I'm a you know say I'm a Trump
supporter and I'm like you know these
visas aren't getting renewed uh these
oper the grants aren't getting given to
foreigners anymore this is renewed
opportunity for Americans in academia
like American citizens these jobs are
available to Americans now and he was
like
the issue with that is they weren't
getting walled out before this is this
is not an area where American Americans
weren't getting hired because these
opportunities weren't available. Uh like
these people were coming in because it's
fills the gap of an area where we
couldn't get enough Americans into these
positions to begin with. And uh he noted
that like the institution he works for
uh he said also I'm not trying to flex
but for context the institution and labs
I have been at have all been at the top
of the field. My last lab was working
right next to a lab that just won the
Nobel Prize. So the fact that even we
are struggling is pretty crazy. I can
only imagine what it's like at smaller
institutions. And he said that in the
context of his uh in in his business uh
China and Europe are investing so
heavily in his field of work that uh as
we like shut down opportunities and
money into his field. It strengthens the
industries in those areas because it's
where people turn to for opportunity.
Um and then uh the last person I wanted
to talk to worked in the film and TV
industry. So, he was a post-production
guy on a reality on reality TV shows for
a long time. He worked part-time or
America's Strongest Industry,
Love Island, and
Love Island UK show.
Oh, really? Oh, they're taking our
[__] jobs.
Uh, he driver still running.
He was talking about in 2017 or 2017 to
2020 worked contract. Um, this industry
is growing. He's developing a lot of
connections. He's getting a lot of work.
lands a full-time position at the one of
the companies that he has a relationship
with and works there from 2020 until
2023. During this time period, they are
doing really well. He said he's getting
paid amazingly well. He loves his job
and that was boom years for TV shows.
All the streamers were competing and
Exactly. Yeah. It was just like an
amazing time to to be in that industry,
right? And then he said since then
because this co entertainment bubble has
kind of popped like all these large
companies in the space are consolidating
and making more and more cuts. Uh the
reactions or the the some of the uh
reactions around the union negotiations
that were happening all of these things
that are happening at the same time
result in the industry. And then the
last thing was a lot of the industry
leaving Los Angeles, like not wanting to
work in LA anymore and finding cheaper
places to do cheaper work outside of
here. And he hasn't uh had any work in
this industry for like two years now.
And he said it's like the worst time in
his life. He's really uh and he's really
struggling because he's dealing with the
fact that he invested all this time in
his career, all of this experience, uh
all of this uh you know his education to
work in this specific field. and it
feels like it doesn't translate very
well anymore. He doesn't have somewhere
to turn to. In the meantime, he's done
some editing work for like Twitch
streamers and YouTubers where he can
find it contract things that aren't very
consistent. And then uh he ended up
getting like but as time passed he
opened the doors to anything. He said he
had just done a test and applied to
become like a 911 operator. Um he
where is it? Uh he applied to be a
debate coach at a high school to work
worker comp claims uh like insurance
claims applied to a bunch of sales jobs
like we'll take anything and is
currently works at uh Dodger Stadium and
uh part-time at Spirit Halloween and
that's what he's doing right now. And
he's gone from, you know, super
successful career where he was making
enough money for both him and his wife
to like live comfortably to the
situation he's in now where both of them
are struggling and they're just trying
to figure out how to make ends meet and
he's and he's 30.
Well, I heard from Trump it's the
greatest economy ever and things are
bobbing. So, I I don't understand how to
square that circle.
But it's it's the last thing I wanted to
touch on is like we we said one field is
experiencing like a lot of people hiring
right now, right? It's in medicine. and
it's in taking care of the elderly. And
uh one person in the Discord stuck out
to me specifically and uh they said
they're 38 years old. Basically, the job
market is in a weird spot because
they're constantly poaching people from
different positions or different
healthcare groups or different hospitals
to fill positions. Uh but the game like
never ends right now because people keep
leaving ship or they keep leaving
pulling people from different
Well, it doesn't sound so bad for the
workers. Like if they're getting poached
left and right, they're getting good pay
bumps.
He expands a bit. He said, "Recently
left my first job uh post training,
which was a fully outpatient, no nights,
no weekends job because it was owned by
a private equity company, and the
day-to-day experience was awful, as was
the compensation relative to the market
rate. Was very easy to find a new job,
but not easy to find one where you don't
have to compromise on several things you
don't like. Uh because now every job has
its downsides in the industry. So to get
better pay and better management run by
doctors and not MBAs, the trade-off is
working call shifts at night or
weekends. Again, most of us in medicine
feel like the system is holding on by a
thread and will collapse in just a
matter and is just a matter of when, not
if. Um and uh and then he he goes on to
explain like why the field isn't as
appealing as it used to be. But just you
know this is all anecdotal and I
understand that, right? But even talking
to other friends that work in
healthcare, they all feel really
similarly that the system is very
stretched. The amount of like time and
shifts that they have to put in, there
aren't enough people to fill positions.
Uh, and I think when you work in a
context of healthcare where the
difference in you, you know, choosing to
stay a few extra hours and help people
out or take on a long shift is dealing
with another person's health or
livelihood. There's a lot of mental
pressure on you to do a good job. That's
what I hear from from people.
It's not as hard as being a streamer,
but I understand. I get like in general
what you're saying,
but I really appreciate everybody
writing in here is like across all of
these fields like whether you know
regardless of what they are, the common
huge huge common themes I saw were uh
spending tons of time sending in a
ridiculous amount of applications, most
of which don't even get a response or if
you do land an interview, not getting a
response after that. No one contacting
you after your interview.
Can I ask did anyone bring up like ghost
jobs? That's what I hear about so much
is that like
was that part of I didn't read this.
I didn't I didn't read I think from my
understanding of ghost jobs. I think
part of the issue is like it's if you're
applying to them it's not actually clear
if it was a ghost job ever.
Right. You never know. You never get a
response. I see
there's a lot of people finding a lot of
people saying they spent a ton of time
applying to jobs and a really common
message they got back was this position
was just filled. So that could be that,
right?
Ghost job meaning a company posts a
listing that they have no intention of
actually hiring.
Yeah. Just to seem like they're still
growing just seem like to appear good.
And apparently like like the numbers are
impossible to verify because no one's
going to tell you it's a ghost sh. But
the stats I've seen are like it could be
as high as like 70% in some industries
where you're 70% of what you're seeing
as jobs available are not real. They're
just every company has at least a few
ghost jobs to pretend like they're
they're not in a death spiral
with all of these people, especially in
these industries that I think have
experienced a ton of downsizing like
text. Like you've dumped all of these
people out of the workforce and have a
limited amount of positions to apply to
that are still available. It's like each
one of these incoming uh like if you're
on the recruiting side, you're getting
hundreds of applications right now to
sort through and figuring out how to
manage that.
Did anyone mention chat GBT? Because I
know that's been a big [__] crazy
thing in jobs right now.
Some people were mentioning uh the uh
the discomfort of the way that they were
declined or received messages after
their either application or interview.
So they said I a few people noted that
the way they got a message or the I I
think the specific example I can
remember was one person said that they
got a message back from a normal reg
they got a call from an actual human
being and that said they were confirmed
for the interview but then got an
automated message like a day later that
said that their position was declined
and that is something that gets
automated by people using chat GBT to
like sort through applications. Um the
the other thing people said I mean this
has always been the case. I can't
imagine a time in history where you know
recommendations don't make you go a
little further. But the what I gathered
from reading through a bunch of people's
responses is that recommendations or
are have gone from like
something you need sometimes to
something you need basically all the
time. It is the number one difference
maker. Brian Brian from uh from Riot and
Blizzard and yeah uh he's a recruiter
and I talked to him and basically my
understanding is that nowadays if you
put out a job application you're going
to get 500 plus chat GPT written uh
resumes and and cover letters for that
job. And it's impossible to to just
differentiate outside of like incredible
background that like
you can't fake but like for most people
you can't even tell from the it's all
Chad GBT right so and so they're using
AI to sort these and it's AI going in
and AI coming out and it's so the only
way is a recommendation like you said
like it's that's like their only unique
thing is to find a human being that will
say vouch for you because the numbers
are staggering. They're impossible for a
human being to go through for
everything.
It was interesting. Sorry, go ahead.
I was just It makes me feel like often
people talk about the main point of
college is just to network. Like that's
the real value of it. And I think I I
pushed back against that when I was in
college because like no, I'm learning
how to program. I'm learning this
concrete skill and that skill is going
to get me a job. And it see feels like
across all industries now, including
computer science. Looking at the
responses from people in the Discord,
it's like no, having a computer science
degree is not that helpful anymore. But
then the people who are like, "Oh, I got
a job in the CS industry." Almost every
at least every single person I saw is
like, "Well, I had a friend who worked
there or I had a recommendation." So
even the industries that it felt like
you could really like build this
portfolio that just gets you this
rockolid foot in that doesn't work
anymore. And it's so weird to say, but I
would
my sense uh is that if you're trying to
get into computer science, it is more
important to make connections with
people than to learn how to program.
That would be my advice. Crazy, right?
Which is a very weird thing. Yeah. And I
guess just to quickly add on to that, I
so I would screen uh resumes at EA when
I worked there 10 years ago. Yeah. Even
then when there was many fewer
applicants, if you get, for example, you
do job posting, you're like, we need a a
entry-le computer scientist to help us
with this particular role while we're
managing data. And so I would be for our
team, I would be one of the people who
would screen through resumes. And I can
tell you on the the human experience
side, if you get and I don't know if you
guys have gone through applications, if
you get a hundred resumes, they start to
all blend together.
Yes. Like it is so unbelievably hard.
Not only do they blend together, unless
you are going to spend an hour on every
single person, which would then take you
a month to go through, which is not
feasible. You have to kind of just go
through and just try to look for a
couple things that stand out notably.
And then if you were told by a friend,
somebody you trust, oh, this person I
know is applying. He's really good. You
that's top of the stack right away. You
set it to the side along, you're looking
for maybe two or three others cuz it's
just not feasible at all. And I imagine
that but times 10 and if it was 5,000
applications it's like the only possible
way to you know catch is evening what
everything looks like. Yeah. It's seems
like just incredibly brutal. this person
one ramens in the discord spoke directly
to what it's like on the recruiting side
of uh he was describing his own personal
opportunity perspective of applying but
then he said on the flip side I've been
part of hiring and the reverse
experience is equally as insane
applications now reaching triple digits
with HR being extremely strict with
guard rails to the point where I'm
pretty sure it's on a whim can you
imagine that someone who isn't even in
the field has to sort out and bring the
best candidates to you but they don't
know exactly what they are reading.
Highquality talent is extremely hard to
come by. I get random messages on
LinkedIn asking me to recommend them.
And when asking where I met them, they
literally said, "We haven't, but it's
hard to find a job. Mostly mostly people
who are on visas." Um,
yeah. So, I I wanted to ask you guys
because uh we've been around in a
different environment and I want just
for me, sorry, I keep leaning back. I I
know. Uh, it's so obvious,
you know, I feel like I'm being gas lit
constantly because the vibe is so
clearly different. Something h it can't
be um like we were around in in like the
2014 15 in the era when I'm not saying
it was easy. The job wasn't just handed
to you.
It was if you were in computer science
you were you were handed jobs as you
left Berkeley like that. And that's why
everybody like got those coding boot
camps and everything because the the
path to getting a job was was so
tech was desperate for talent and that
is that is completely reversed.
And maybe this is tech bias. I
understand because I'm in that area and
that's and that's the people I talk a
lot of friends I have in that area. But
it's so obvious that the people now are
not um I don't know working less hard or
whatever. It's just different. Like it
was easier. It was easier before and now
it is harder. And you can't tell me that
like the unemployment rate is the same
or that um the economy is booming. It's
just it clearly isn't. Everybody has a
story like this. This is not you know
this is like a day or two in the
I mean we got like hundreds of responses
but everybody you talk to anybody in
your life who is like actively searching
for a job and you can it's just
miserable now in a way that it was not.
I'm not saying it was always easy and
I'm not saying if you got a job before
that you just lucked into it but um it's
harder now. It just is. I I I and so
it's it is frustrating to be told from
any source that it's not.
There was a wild I
there's a there's a person who works
like pretty high up in or used to work
pretty high up in marketing related to
esports.
What's her name?
And and address and list of greatest
fears. and they and I received a message
from a co-orker the other day about them
uh because they're, you know, they're
relatively older and I I do think
there's a difference here that I noticed
in the age of responses when people were
getting back to me is like people who
are older and more experienced are
having an easier time finding jobs when
they search. There's still
sure
a different which makes sense a
difference between overall unemployment
and youth unemployment like easily easy
to understand that right uh but even for
this person who is that established
resume in esports and marketing like
they had at two very big companies they
have been out of work for I think a year
and I think made a LinkedIn post about
you know just to the public of why they
would be valuable to your company.
please hire me. Just an open-ended post.
And I'm looking at somebody that I'm
familiar with. I know has more than a
decade of experience in highle marketing
roles. Not senior marketing roles, not
not entry level. And this guy has been
looking for a job for apparently over a
year. That's crazy to see for me. And
especially as when it's a figure that
you recognize and you look up to as a
younger guy who's finding a job in
esports.
Yeah. Uh, I just Yeah, I think the vi
the vibe kind of
atrocious. It seems atrocious and uh and
and that's before the data reflects it.
Do you know what I'm saying? like that.
That is it feels like the part and I
know I'm calling a bit of a doomer but
it feels like the part in like the big
short before they update the mark
tomarket on everything and like everyone
knows it's bad but no one admit like it
it just
it's possible that we're getting a
biased survey here and we're we're not
hitting the right people but it just
feels like from everybody in my life
even my friends back home in Arizona
like it just the consistent vibe is that
it's atrocious. It's terrible but the
data has not is barely budged. It's
barely moving up and I just feel like
what's going to happen when when we
admit it when we admit that it actually
is not
I mean even if you're looking you know
even if you're somebody who is looking
at anecdotes right
this was not something that anecdotally
my friends were struggling with five
years ago and they were younger
and looking and they were working in I
would argue
you they were working in like esports
and tech like and and Nobody was
talking. Nobody was talking about that
at the time. And then outside of esports
and tech, I feel like it's uh anybody
who was working in a white maybe a white
collar field, I feel like is the same
experience across the board. Like I
think the number one thing you want to
vent to your friends about are very may
maybe personal struggles with things
that that feel unfair with something
like job applications with struggling to
find a job because it's so important in
your life and it's you you need to share
it with your friends and the people
around you. So to see that this at at
this scale, witnessing it all the time,
especially over the last year versus
what I think my friends were talking
about five years ago or eight years ago,
it's it's absolutely different.
So I I want to talk about this because
that's the one thing I'm worried about
is that we're biased towards the fields
that we know and have.
Of course. Of course. And uh basically
there are a few we talked about the
industries that are hiring and that's
mostly healthcare and it's like
government jobs but the companies that
are still reporting profits that are
still like doing well are on Wall Street
and Silicon Valley like the biggest tech
companies are still
blowing blowing the back out of hurting
I couldn't find a more sexual way to say
it but it is sexual it is orgasmic in
fact look at uh sorry I'm skipping
slides a go to slide side uh 20. He's
he's he's coming when he made took this
photo.
If you go to the side right after that,
it shows Meta's recent earnings report.
They're they're they're having a great
time. But what is so shocking, what is
so ahistoric is that Microsoft and Meta
are again ball bustingly good earnings.
Yeah. And then they're laying people
off.
Like they are they are doing better than
ever. They're crushing. Their main
business is doing well. They're throwing
a ton of money in AI. If you are an AI
researcher, you're you're doing better
than ever in history. You're making
absurd money. But the average employee,
they're still like they left 9,000
people. Microsoft did another 8,000.
Like
damn.
So these are the these are the few
companies and if you go to slide 19, it
really shows it.
Are the layoffs coinciding with these
like it's still happening in the last
month, last two months.
Yes. Microsoft Syad Nadella, CEO of
Microsoft put out a a post internal that
was like why we have to change. It's
like we want to discuss. We just had to
let go of so all the normal jargon of
like incredible our friends and our
family and our co-workers. We had to let
go of 9,000 people. Probably many of you
are confused and frustrated because we
also have hit our most profitable
quarter of all time. And it's just it's
just from there it's like we need to
repivot for the future. We need it's
just nonsense. There's no
I'm so glad you read that because it was
it was
to me
it's one thing to be like so sorry we
had to lay off 9,000 people. It's
another be like we had to lay off 9,000
people. know you're hurting and I want
to address it. Doesn't address it at
all.
Oh my god, dude. He mixed two things. He
mixed announcing how [__] great the
company is doing and the layoffs into
the same post. And to me, I could be
wrong, but to other people, it was
clearly written by C-pilot. He was like
using his own.
Really?
I mean, maybe wrong. Maybe it was
heartfelt. I'm not sure, but it just
felt it had the AI vibe. And I, you
know,
he has an AI vibe to him.
That's possible true. I'll fully admit
that.
What is the Because the profits don't
exist just because of the layoffs,
right? Like it's not one to one.
No, no, they're they're doing great and
then laying people off. It's not Yeah.
So why what what actually is the the
logic you think? Like what is is it
genuinely like we're we're bloated and
have a bunch of talent that doesn't
align with what we want to do in the
future? I'm not trying to excuse these
companies by any means, but there's like
they made the decision, right? So there
must be a thought.
Yeah. I mean, so here's the here's are
some of the the lines of thinking. One
is the businesses are changing
dramatically. All these big tech
companies are trying to reorient towards
AI. If you've built out these giant
structures in your company, for example,
Microsoft shut down a bunch of their
game studios. I think that's stupid. I
don't think they should have bought
those studios in the first place if they
were just going to go shut them down.
The thinking is we if you believe Sachi
Nadella's thinking which is our company
needs to be fundamentally reoriented
around AI. Well that means letting go of
parts of the company that uh aren't
about that like these are these are just
making traditional games that's not his
focus. Microsoft explicitly is trying to
do AI games which I know most people are
including myself not a big fan of at all
but so if the thinking is we need to
reorient in this way there is a real
cost to having giant chunks of a company
that aren't oriented like towards your
main mission. As much as people like to
believe like, oh, just let them keep
going. You have a lot of money. It it's
not good generally for a business to
just have giant swaths of things that
are just doing totally independent
things that are not related to your core
mission. So, under the premise of our
core mission is AI. We need to rebuild
everything around that. You drop parts
of your company that don't feel like
they align. Same with the groups within
your in company that don't feel like
they can be reoriented in this way. And
then part of it is just cycling in the
the idea of like if you like so it's
important to remind everybody of in the
context of this incredibly frustrating
brutal job environment that part of what
is going on is that in 2021 which we'll
actually talk about a little bit with
Figma. There was this absolutely massive
explosion and bubble within tech.
Microsoft like doubled I think. I mean
we're talking like a 100,000 new
employees just I think just Microsoft I
don't know maybe you can look it up but
we're talking about tens and tens and
tens of thousands of people that
suddenly in a year pop up in every tech
company. It was obviously at the time a
massive bubble and now there's this huge
contraction and the problem is many many
people across the world and society went
ah these areas are expanding. I'm going
to push myself into those those areas.
I'm going to learn how to code. I'm
going to do
learn how to code at UC Berkeley, right?
Like again, when I went there, I was an
anomaly by being a computer science
student. Now, the majority of students
are computer science students. At least
that's what I'm told. Uh so this massive
shift happened in society to go, okay,
we are going to invest into these
companies. The bubble is now kind of
gone. Simultaneously, they're trying to
reorient towards AI. And so now all of
them are going, we need to contract
massively. Part of the benefit of
contracting and laying people off is
then you can bring in like fresh people
who really orient, which I think is
again I I do not think this is ethical.
I think it's a shitty thing to do, but
there is there is logic to it. If you
believe that this is a critical thing
for your company survive like future
surviving thriving is to reorient in
this way.
What I'm saying is I don't care about
the ethic. Like if you go back to that
slide, I'm sorry, Perry, the 19 slide. I
don't care about the ethics of it. They
they can do what they want with their
business. It sucks. CEOs are always
going to write [__] terrible things
where they lay off people. Yeah. The the
point is that these are the few company
if you go to slide 19 these are the
these top 10 companies in the S&P the
big tech companies these are the few
companies doing well and if they're not
net hiring do you know what I'm saying
what is it what does it say if the best
performing companies in the economy are
still the ones doing
if they're the ones doing layoffs then
like what the hell are what what is
everyone else going to do and again they
are hiring people for AI but it's like
they're firing 25 people making 100,000
and hiring one guy making 250 million
so here's where I'll I'll I'll give a
bit of context. I've mentioned a couple
times now that I've come a little more
pessimistic about AI over this 6 months,
this last six months. And in part is
things like this because in theory AI
should be creating new jobs. And we've
talked about the first episode we talked
about how in the short term when a brand
new disruptive technology comes into
society like the internet. It's going to
destroy more jobs than it creates, but
eventually it will create more jobs. But
the way CEOs in tech companies are
explicitly talking like Toby from
Spotify is we aren't hiring anybody
until we prove it can't be done with AI.
Like they are making a cultural
intentional shift towards get rid of
anybody who can't support AI focus and
don't hire anybody unless we absolutely
provably cannot do it with AI.
And these are the companies doing well.
These are the companies with earnings,
right? And so we're and they're the ones
growing because of AI and because of the
hype around AI. So these are the
companies that should in theory be
spearheading the growth that comes from
this new technology. Instead they're as
a point as a cultural point saying we
are going to try to thin down as much as
we possibly can
and there's just nowhere you know you
lose a job at these places after
investing all this time in your
education and career. I mean in a
similar capacity to my friend that had
been working in post-production and TV
for so long and now they're in a
situation where it's like all this time
I spent up until this point doesn't like
where do I go with it? Right. Yeah.
Which is sucks. It's [__] sad. I
still I still think there's an
incredible amount of good that can come
out of AI and I'm increasingly getting
pessimistic that it's that companies are
really not making an effort to bring
those benefits to the average person
right now. And I think that's quite sad.
I think the average person is
benefiting. Can you go to slide one?
There's one person who's actually making
out quite well in this. And
this is the average person. This is the
average person. This is the average
person. The average person's
uh hero. Elon Musk today was awarded
after a long battle $30 billion because
they want him to energize and focus.
Most dumbass CEOs try to do good first
and then get the pay package. But if you
read the bottom of this, following
lackluster results last month, Elon Musk
renewed his threat to leave Tesla. So
what Elon does is he does a bad job
first. He threatens to leave. So sick
and then he gets an even higher payout.
This this actually has to be one of the
most insane CEO company dynamics of all
time.
There's no way because in any other
situation, this is just not how it even
could work. Am I Am I wrong? I mean,
it's it's like it's like if show Otani
in baseball,
yeah,
he is, I think, widely considered the
greatest of all time now or up there.
And then, let's say he has an absolute
dog [__] season this year.
And then the Dodgers are like, "Look,
we're going to pay you even more to
stick around cuz we think you'll bring
it back next year and you'll become the
GOAT again." That is the thinking here,
right? Cuz like inarguably, te Tesla and
Elon through SpaceX and Tesla has
created trillions of dollars of market
share. So, as an investor, he is your
wet dream when he's functioning
properly.
Am I not am I insane for thinking that
when you're that wealthy and you have
that much of the stock already, 30
billion doesn't move the needle on your
work ethic?
I don't get it.
30 billion should move the needle on
anyone's work ethic.
No, no, no. But you see what I'm saying?
It's like it's all at that stage and at
that scale, it's it's nonsense numbers.
You're already in practice as
functionally rich as you will ever be.
I think that's a fair point.
What is another
Are you asking me do I think Elon is
something going to lock in?
No, but that's what I'm saying is like
from the board from the board's
perspective, do you really think that
this pay package is going to change
anything significant about this guy's
output?
Okay, he went and did Doge for a while.
If my cat is distracted and rowdy and
running around, I will give him a treat
to calm back down and stay focused.
You give your cat $30 billion.
I give him a $30 billion treat. This
look, the scale is a little bit bigger
here, but it's the same concept. The
Elon cat was wandering around and there
was a bird outside called Doge that he
kept looking at and he got really
excited about it
and we just Tesla needs to just get him
focused back on. And if we run, if we
followed this analogy, I do not think
there's much stopping the cat from going
back outside at any time.
Yeah, it's so funny because he's figured
out a way to get paid a ton when it when
Tesla's doing well and get paid even
more when it's doing badly. He has found
an ultimate
to be fair though, I feed my cat treats
regardless.
He's doing he's
I just want to put this number in a
scale real quick because I think it'll
help understand. So $30 billion we
obviously know it's a lot of money but
Tesla's a big company. Tesla's entire
profit for 2024 was seven billion. So
this is like and that was one of their
bigger year. I mean like that they
they've ramped up since postco. So it is
like I think added up their entire
profit ever.
All the profit this company's ever made
is his pay package now this year. It's
just like the company has only existed
to give him money. There's not. It's
just wild to me. It is. It is wild the
system he's created. Now, I think he's
played it pretty smartly and I want to I
want to give a little more detail here.
One thing he's noticed as all tech CEOs
have. If you say the word AI, stock goes
up. Tesla has notably been kind of
absent from AI because Elon Musk has
focused all his AI attention on Grock
and XAI. He's put all of his time into
that. And he's basically saying, I'm
going to leave Tesla and focus on that
stuff,
but if you keep me around, I'm probably
going to merge the two. I'm gonna find a
way to get the word AI into Tesla's
earnings reports more often.
And that will probably boost shares
enough is what they're thinking to make
up for this 30 billion loss. So, there's
a re there's a rationale to it. It's not
the most insane thing, but it's kind of
just disgusting. It's just disgusting.
And
I can't I can't believe I can't buy a
BYD.
It's insane. It's insane that I can't
buy.
I know you're a trader. I know you're a
[__] trader. That's interesting.
All right. Speaking of emerging
companies, you guys want to talk about
Figma?
Let's do it.
All right. We've been going a while and
I want to talk about Figma, a company
that IPOed last week and why it is
relevant and why you should maybe care
and more importantly why it relates to
the conversation we had with Lena Con.
And this is basically a follow-up I want
to do to express
oh my queen
your queen a criticism is not the right
word but I I spoke to a venture
capitalist who runs a successful venture
capitalist fund as well as a CEO of a
pretty successful VCbacked company.
Disclaimer on the second. Technically,
I'm an investor in that company because
he's one of my best friends. But I
invested the minimum amount possible
just so I would get access to the
investor emails. And now I reply and I'm
like, I don't care whatever he says.
So he I have to be mailed like these
formal documents and stuff because I'm
technically an investor at the minimum
amount. And then I can just walk around
and like say you need to do more for me.
I'm one of investors. So it's great.
You can put investor in your bio. This
is how I felt when the t from the stock
competition the the metals company they
sent out a recent like you know you're
an owner of the company come to our
meeting and I was like yeah I I am
I sort of am a an influencer an
innovator for TMC usually.
So technically disclaimer I have
invested $5,000 in the company of the
person who's who I own and I I stand to
gain $1,000 or something maybe if it
blows.
I'm going to be real. That's so much
less than I thought it would be. I I
asked for the minimum amount, the actual
minimum amount and that was apparently
as low as it could go. So technically I
am biased towards this company
technically and this guy also but more
so he's one of my best friends. Okay, so
Figma, why do we give a [__] Figma, if
you haven't heard of it, design
collaboration company. They started like
about 10 years ago. It's think of Google
Docs but for design. So a bunch of
people can get together and work on a
document collaboratively. Um quick
history of of Figma. They they kind of
released their product in 2016. They
start uh they get people in with like
free tiers really rapidly start to
expand. By 2022 they are just crushing
it. 4 million users. It's the primary
design tool for 77% of product
designers. 88% gross margin. They're
crushing it. Adobe comes in September
2022. They announced they have agreed
with Figma to buy them for 20 billion.
Just like double their private
valuation, 50 times their annual
revenue. So Adobe's argument is
supposedly like this doesn't compete
with us. We don't compete with Figma.
They had a product called Adobe XD which
was directly competing with Figma, but
that product was failing. And they're
basically like look this is in the same
broad design space but Adobe makes the
products where you you know you build uh
like you flesh out the design visuals
and whatnot. Figma is people
collaborating on the you know conceptual
designs.
Well, you definitely wouldn't be
competing if you bought.
Exactly.
That's for damn sure. So I think to me
and probably to most people and the
reaction was once it's announced like
come on that's [__] [__] What do
you Adobe first off everybody hates
Adobe it feels like they have a monopoly
and they use that to abuse their
customers and that we all have a worse
experience.
We like early cancellation fees me and
Aiden for example. We're that's one of
Adobe's coolest things.
Adobe
if I cancel early I should pay you more
money. That's for damn sure.
It's my fault.
I [__] up Adobe.
I'm not holding up my end of the deal.
Yeah.
And you should punish
and I feel guilty about it. Like I need
a payment to cleanse my soul.
I was throwing up thinking about
breaking up with Adobe.
Millennials don't keep their word
anymore. We have no honor. Our ancestors
were honorable. Okay. The greatest
generation, they went to World War II
and they were honorable.
Feel like a [__] quitter when I
canceled my Photoshop, dude. I was I
couldn't afford it. And I feel like I
let [__] the CEO of Adobe down.
[__] let him down. So the
government's come out, not only the US
government, uh the FTC led by Lena Khan
at the time. So this is again late 2022,
but also the European Union Commission
and also the UK Commission all say we
think this is monopolistic. We are going
to investigate this. So the deal falls
through by like a year later or
something around that end of 2023. Uh
Adobe and Figma say we're going to walk
away from the deal. We're not going to
try to merge. This is not going to be
able to be done in a regulatory way. So
Figma over the next two years, two and a
half, they keep raising investor
funding. They keep just absolutely
crushing it. And if you pull us up,
Perry, they IPOed last week. They sold
their shares at $33 a share. Um, we can,
I guess, briefly talk about how an IPO
works, but basically they're like, "Hey,
we think it's going to be about $33 is
what it's worth." By the end of the day
they launch. It's up to $115, over
triple. So, this thing just [__]
explodes. Okay. Uh, Figma is one of the
most successful IPOs, one of the most
successful companies. It's a huge
success story. And so, coming out of
this, Lena Khan does a victory lap. She
goes on Twitter and says, "A great
reminder that letting startups grow into
independently successful businesses
rather than being bought up by existing
giants can generate enormous value. It's
a win for the employees, the investors,
innovation, and the public." So, she is
looking at this, and we're going to talk
about really the broader ecosystem of
what's going on. She's looking at this
and saying, "Our our goal to really
drive scrutiny to mergers and
acquisitions to draw a lot more
resistance to big tech companies buying
smaller ones." This is an example of how
now we have a big competitor to Adobe in
the form of Figma. This is a fantastic
thing. But the Silicon Valley world had
a lot of choice words for her. And so,
for example, Paul Graham, who founded Y
Cominator, a uh let's say startup uh
incubator. Startups are risky. Sometimes
you keep rolling the dice. Sometimes
when you keep rolling the dice, things
work out. Sometimes not. But founders
should be able to decide for themselves
when to stop. You have Jason from uh the
All-In podcast, who's kind of an idiot,
so I'll skip him. No. No offense, he's
just his his he's he's a little more
emotionally charged.
He was the Oh, he's the guy who said
bread lines when he heard about the
grocery store.
Dude, this is a who's who of a really
great blunt rotation. I got to be
honest.
I mean, Paul Graham has good stuff.
Nikita Beer is more of a memer than
brings up
Nikita Beer has made his entire fortune
selling the same company over and over
to big tech. He makes a company that's
about teenagers sending each other uh
compliments. He made it Gasapp and TBH
and IRL. It's the same company three
times. And he sold it to Discord. He
sold it to Facebook. He sold it to I
think Amazon was a third one. He of
course he is against
uh anything that slows down merger
acquisitions. He's figured out an
ultimate scheme, a money-making scheme.
I I respect the guy. He's got a great
hustle, but he did it three times. And
the fact that he's like,
"Wait, wait, what what was his product
that he sold?"
He made a app with three different names
where teenagers could anonymously send
each other compliments. One of them was
called TBH, one was called IRL. It's
like you could be like Aiden, you could
open it up and be like, "Someone called
you hot today at school." You don't know
who, but it feels good. And I think he
can pay a little money to unlock it or
something. And that app, apparently it
works and it gets at least a burst of
users. And then he sells it to a bigger
tech company. And then he makes the same
app again with a different name. And
then he sells it to a tech company. He's
figured out an ultimate scheme. And I
think he's smart and I respect him for
that.
I changed my mind on Lena.
But the the idea that he's going to
admit that like any regulatory oversight
over startups is a good idea. Of course
not. it it directly impacts his his
bottom line.
Yeah.
Trying to stop great American successes.
A few more responses. Uh somebody
pointed out the the classic survivorship
bias where it's basically the point is
yes, Figma did well. Yes, went on to
succeed and be bigger than they. So now
they're worth like $60 billion. Adobe
was trying to buy them for 20 billion.
So like the amount of let's say market
value that has created massive on top of
monopolistic concerns. But this is a you
know a frequent criticism from various
people. I saw some other interesting
ones where you know people are basically
criticizing you said letting the
startups grow independently is when in
actuality what you did Lena is you
prevented them from having the option of
having an exit and there's plenty
counterex examples too a lot of people
oh I got logged out of X maybe nope
we're good uh somebody's saying I would
have I worked for a startup that would
have gone bankrupt and gone to zero and
the entire staff would have been laid
off if we weren't bought and then a
person follows up and be like so they're
so you were forced to compete imagine
that uh folks being like, "Hey, here's a
here's a an email from Mark Zuckerberg
in 2012 saying, one reason people
underestimate the importance of Google
is we can just buy any competitive
startups, but we can't buy Google yet."
So, some blatant like anti-competitive
stuff from Mark Zuckerberg in the past,
who does not have a good history of
this, right? Um, and so there's a whole
kind of debate going on with Lena doing
a sort of victory lap and that being a
reason for them to talk about it. I
don't think that most of the tweets that
people are saying in response to Lena
are particularly wellvoiced or anything
like that. So I wanted to hear from more
people. So again spoke with a VC and a
and a startup uh CEO who's been both of
these have been like working with
startups tech for the last 10 years. Um
so here are some actual thoughtful
counterarguments. So Lena Khan came in
as the FTC chair and what she did over
the course of her four years is
massively expanded the scope of what
types of things she would go after. she
did create uh she released this
guideline list from the FTC merger
guidelines basically saying these are
the rules that we are going to consider
when we decide whether or not we're
going to resist and push back against
your ability to merge or buy a company.
Now, as I read through these in prep for
the Lena Khan interview, they're pretty
broad, but it's fine. But then what
happened is that the actual cases that
she took on were I think in many ways
cases that people would never consider
to be anti- monop or monopolistic. So
one example that was brought up was
Facebook Meta tried to buy a small VR
fitness app. They didn't make VR fitness
apps. They didn't make apps at all for
VR stuff. They owned a VR platform and
Lena pushed against that and said,
"Well, you shouldn't able you shouldn't
be able to buy things downstream of you
if you're a platform owner. you
shouldn't be able to do vertical uh
purchases rather than just horizontal.
There was two pharmaceutical companies
that made different these aren't giant
pharma companies. They're two companies
that make different drugs that have no
overlap and they wanted to merge because
they thought they could be uh more
successful in marketing each other's
stuff. And Lena pushed to block that and
that eventually got stopped because her
argument was well you guys would be able
to bundle together your medicines and
thus be able to kind of abuse that in
the market for higher pricing. anybody,
any company could do that whenever.
There was no evidence eventually that
she lost that case as well because there
was no evidence they were going to do
that in the first place. They did
eventually give a a stipulation to her
and say, "Okay, we promise we won't
bundle for price things." So, there was
a bit of a victory for her there. But
the issue, and I agree with this, having
looked through this in what I believe is
an impartial way, is that while she came
in and really broadened and said, "We
are going to be way more aggressive
about stopping big tech and big
companies from just buying out stuff and
creating these monopolies." the cases
that she took on and the FTC took on
felt so broad, so nebulous, so unclear
about why this particular merger is an
issue versus the stuff that clearly
falls in line with what people would
think traditionally created a level of
uncertainty that slowed M&A down
entirely. I brought this up when we
talked to Lena Khan and her response
was, "Well, look, 97% of these mergers
still went through, right? It's not like
we're blocking all of them. It's like
some small percentage that we're we're
going to investigate." But the
counterargument and what people saw in
Silicon Valley was if you make the
entire merger market feel uncertain. If
you set the tone of we might go after
anything, then people are not even going
to attempt to do that. So yes, 97% of
the deals that came in were passed by
you, but the argument is way more way
fewer deals got to you in the first
place because people were so uncertain
about what was happening. They didn't
want to even attempt stuff like this.
and the mergers and acquisitions that
could have actually been really helpful
or spurred innovation or whatever, which
we'll get to, those couldn't even happen
in the first place. The other piece that
I didn't I wasn't really aware of is
that Lena did this stuff while the IPO
window closed. And this is why Figma is
relevant. So IPOs are where you take a
company public, right? But it's risky to
do that. You are kind of putting a lot
of the the fate of your company out into
the public. You have all this regulatory
scrutiny. You then have all these
obligations. And if you put your company
out public and then the stock drops,
that could tank the entire thing, right?
So, you really want to be certain that
taking a company public will have actual
success in the market. People actually
invest into your company. But the
problem that we mentioned earlier is in
2021 was a massive bubble. So, there's
some crazy numbers like there's all
these spa companies that did a bunch of
crazy stuff. Uh, dozens of tech
companies were IPOing in 2021. There's
record VC funding. But then 2022, 2023,
the bubble pops. things swing way back
and so interest rates also rise up way
during this period. So instead of having
a zero interest rate policy, which we
had forever, now people can make safe
money by investing in, you know, safe
assets. They don't need to go for like
high growth tech stocks, right? And the
companies that had IPOed in 2021, they
start crashing. So this big bubble in
2021 where it's like, yeah, everybody go
public, everybody get all this hot zesty
action that starts just popping
massively. The companies that got a part
of that, a piece of the action, they're
failing now retroactively badly. They're
they averaged 30% below offering price
on average. It's not just they dropped.
They dropped below what they initially
were. Uh the valuations in the private
sector are being slashed. General
economic uh volatility with for example
the Russia Ukraine war causing enormous
energy shocks. And an analyst said
wait what is the point? What is the what
is the takeaway? What
Yeah. Yeah. So
she couldn't have anticipated that.
No no no she couldn't. The takeaway is
nobody's going to take their company
public with this massive uncertainty.
That's not on her. it is not on her. Um
but the reality is uh 80% less deals in
2022 uh than 2021. 95% less money
generated. There's a massive basically
what they refer to it as the shutting of
the window where you were able to take
companies public before and now it is
much harder to do so because the
willingness of the public to invest in
these companies has disintegrated
massively. So this coincided in this
2022 23 23 era at the same time that
Lena starts doing this very broad and
what was considered to be nebulous
scrutiny of emerges and acquisitions and
so people across the VC tech startup
space people who are creating all these
uh companies and saying look we're
building these companies we're investing
we're trying to make something of value
we've now lost both of our exits we
can't go public and we can't get people
to potentially buy us or do acquisitions
because both of those have been shut
down simultaneously so that's in part
what drives the frustration that you see
on Twitter from people are like, "We had
two options and both doors closed to us.
The entire industry is suffering as a
result." The VC manager that I talked to
um talked about how
flip out.
No, no, I know. Let me charge you in the
crash.
I'm going to flip out.
No, let me let me let me like get the
core arguments in place and then I'm
sure you have plenty of counter
arguments. So, you know, the argument is
basically and we need to talk about as
well whether the VC market is even good,
right? cuz I'm sure there's there's
plenty of people who feel like this
isn't a good thing in the first place.
Um, which I then had a bunch of
follow-up conversations with them with.
Uh, but their argument is like look,
this is in general for the for the
country good to have innovation that's
spurred by VC investing by private
capital funding people to make new
things to build new things for our
country for innovation for everything.
And right now with this kind of dual
threat we are being threatened in the
entire system is being threatened. What
is great about Figma is this is the
first time in a while where there's been
a big successful tech IPO where this is
now saying okay we might have that door
opening again. The other door is also
kind of opening because Trump came in
and Lena Khan had to resign and all
that. So um I think there's a couple of
things we can go on and we don't have a
ton of time left but you know is this
system even good in the first place? uh
what is the value of startup founders
being able to have a choice and various
other things on like is this really the
core cause?
This is the whiniest group of people in
the entire world.
Okay,
this is cra Okay, you already crashed
out on Twitter.
I'm going to I crashed out on Twitter.
You want to pull up that tweet? This is
crazy. Okay, you know why the Figma IPO
was successful is because it's a company
that makes money. It is a profitable,
successful company. If you make one of
those, you will find a way to make
money. They have been surviving in a
bubble era for a few years where you
could do almost [__] anything and
spend all your time posting VC advice on
Twitter and throwing money in random
directions at stupid unprofitable
businesses. And when that dries up even
slightly for a moment with a FTC that
only lasted a few years and is already
gone and they can't stop whining about
it even years after she's out of power,
it's [__] crazy. This is a publicly
elected official who was appointed for a
reason to enforce laws we have on the
books. I'm sorry. Biden was publicly
elected. She was appointed.
He is his right to appoint the FDC which
exists to write laws that are on the
books written by Congress about mergers.
We are enforcing already existing laws.
The fact they've been rubber stamped for
so long does not mean they can never be
enforced. And the fact they were
enforced even slightly and most of them
didn't even go through has been such a
pain point for a portion of society that
has benefited so much already. It's
[__] crazy. It's crazy. And all they
had to do as Figma has proven the entire
time is just make a profitable business
that you can put on the public anytime
we in 2021 they dumped so many
disgusting spacks on it was a scammy
bubble.
Yeah. There was none of those companies
made any money. And when that dried up,
they tried to force it on the tech
companies who have a lot of money to
throw around. Maybe they can convince
them to buy them. When they couldn't do
that, they started whining. Just
whining, whining, whining. If you make a
good company with a good people buy, you
will make money. That has never changed.
That has always been the core of
business. And the idea that so many
people are chiming in and chirping about
this Figma thing. Can you please put my
tweet because I I'm going to
I Yeah, I I I got into this Twitter
thing you brought. I I I usually don't
even [__] tweet. The fact that anyone
could look at this Figma situation and
be like, "Wow, well, Lena shouldn't even
be taught." This worked exactly as
intended. If Lena Khan had not
intervened or or I guess antitrust in
general, this company would have been
bought by Adobe for 20 billion. We would
be in an environment where we have fewer
competition. We have one company, Adobe.
Everyone has to pay whatever fee they
charge. They can mark it up. They have
no competitor from Figma. The Figma
founders would have made less money. the
Figma employees would have made less
money. Figma customers would be unhappy.
They [__] hate Adobe. Uh the only
person that has lost is Adobe. That's
this is a great outcome. We now have two
competitors instead of one. The people
everybody made more money except for
Adobe Execs. Uh customers win surveyed
hate Adobe and are really happy to have
this alternative. Yeah. So this guy
said, you know, Lena Khan would did her
victory lap and he goes, "Lena Khan cuts
the right hand off of a genius pianist
who nevertheless perseveres and produces
a one-handed masterpiece for which then
she then takes credit." It's [__]
insane. That is not what happened. And
the idea that the masterpiece would have
been them getting bought by Adobe for
under their market value so that they
can consolidate and raise prices is the
ultimate outcome or an equal outcome to
what we got is crazy. She intervened and
we got a better outcome, which is what
happens with antitrust in general. We
want more competitors because as
consumers, we want the ability to
[__] walk. If somebody's abusing us
and overcharging us, we want the ability
to walk somewhere else.
Just this whole uh whiny attitude
towards it is ignoring that reality,
which is that the basic consumer needs
choice to have any say to have any
Yeah.
So, I I'm sorry. I'm not crushing on
you. I'm crashing out on some of these
color, but it's just it's frustrating to
me that this is if this was like an
example where Figma exploded, then at
least you could be like, "Well, look at
this, Lena. This is an example where it
worked perfectly. It worked exactly what
everyone would want, and they are still
non-stop chirping about a woman who is
not even in power anymore. I find it to
be disgusting. I find it to be and and
again, all of these people chirping,
they're all millionaires. They're all
tech millionaires. So, it the I don't
know. I'm sorry. I I said okay
this this is good I this is good so
let's keep going this is exactly the
type of I mean to less intensity the
questions that I wanted to ask people
who are in the industry and basically
ask why this seems like a great outcome
seems like exactly what you want why on
earth is this the thing VCs are going in
and being like how dare you Lena Khan
like this is the stupidest possible
thing to go in and try to criticize her
okay I think there's a couple
fundamental things and I really want to
emphasize this because I think a lot of
our audience is on board with you where
they're like companies are bad. I hate
Adobe. Listen, a good company.
However,
they made billions more dollars.
There are absolutely people in our
comments and on the internet who the
idea of a company succeeding or getting
bigger. If Adobe had become more big,
you know, bigger, they would have been
upset.
I got a gym because they were mad that I
was happy that Figma's employees made
billions money. Like they some people
were mad that Figma did well. Anyone did
well. Okay, I understand that exists.
But I just want to be clear that that
shouldn't detract from the point I'm
making because that's not my point.
So here it was what I would consider to
be one of the core counter-arguments of
this. It's about choice because the yes
Figma is now worth more. This is a
better outcome. Adobe lost. But Figma
wanted this. Figma worked for whatever
it was 9 years. The people there worked
at this company to build something of
value and they wanted to merge with
Adobe. They were not forced into it.
There was nothing there. So I think the
question is do you agree that startup
founders somebody who pours their blood,
sweat and tears into a thing that
they've created and you could talk about
a big tech company or you could talk
about the guy who runs a basket Robins
and then sells the franchise to somebody
else after they've run it for 10 years
and it's been successful. It's worth
reminding that it is super [__] hard
to make a company. It is not easy to
make something of value. I think it's
easy to look at this ecosystem and go
everybody's just jerking each other off
making things. But 90% of tech companies
go out of business. If you talk to
people in Silicon Valley, the majority
of their startups will die and fail 90%
within 5 years. 75% of the companies
that VCs back never make them back
money. So most people going into this
are spending money and losing it. It is
not like you just make us anything you
want and you get paid out for it. You
have to actually create something of
value. On top of that, the giant tech
companies are not going around buying
everything. The Magnificent 7, it's hard
to know how many deals they exactly did.
There's like 200 public deals out of
150,000 that have happened over the past
50 years. These are estimates because
you don't they don't disclose every
single deal that they do. But the
narrative of like big tech just buys up
all the companies we need to stop them
is objectively wrong. They are doing a
tiny tiny less than 1% of all the
acquisitions are happening by big tech.
Amazon does hardly any. Microsoft does
more and they do like maybe 150 over the
past 5 years. It is simply not true that
out of over a 100,000 acquisitions, most
people who make companies and sell them
are not doing it to Microsoft and
Facebook. They are doing it to small
buyers and other small companies that
merge together. So, I think it's worth
acknowledging that it's not like there
where there's this cabal that completely
dominates the space, even though
obviously I agree they have outside
influence and so did the VC and CEO who
I talked to. And so the question is in
that context, if you're a founder who
busts your ass and you make something
that is valuable enough to get to that
10% where you've put in years of time or
you and your employees and your team
have made something that is considered
valuable and another company comes along
that's bigger and says we want to buy
you that you should have the choice to
do that. that if you have said I've
built this thing being forced to sit in
the ownership seat forever if I make a
company right now I haven't made a
company over the last seven years and if
somebody offered to buy it and I was
like you know what I'm done maybe it's
cuz I want the money maybe it's cuz I
think I could grow more by being bought
by a bigger company maybe it's because I
think like the employees want this
whatever the reasoning is I think that
it is legitimate that me as somebody
who's built the business should have the
choice about what to do with it and what
was happening in these situations is
Lena
came in and said, "You are not going to
have the choice." Now, again, I am I am
strongly voicing the opinions that I've
heard. I'm I would consider myself kind
of in the middle here because I deeply
believe that there are monopolistic
tendencies going on. I don't think that
acquisitions are some beautiful
incredible thing all the time. But there
is, I think, a real argument to say
like, is it correct for a government to
come in tell a a person who's built a
thing on their own that they can't go
and sell it?
They have to. I think that's the the
simple simple answer is that they have
to
so you have to draw the line somewhere
and we agree on that and the criticism
against Lena Khan and what their FDC was
doing is that there wasn't a clear line
and I can sympathize with this because
even me as a neutral party who who likes
Lena Khan a lot and who [__] hates
monopolies and I don't like the big tech
companies consolidating everything. Even
reading through her cases, I was like,
"Dude, I would have no idea what she
would scrutinize." And that is the
problem that Silicon Valley has. It's
not that she pushed back against the
obviously [__] ones like Adobe and
Figma. It's the fact that people felt,
whether it was legitimate or not, that
they had no idea. And thus, it wasn't
clear at all. Something that my my
startup friend said like if she had just
really clearly defined this new type of
merger, we're going to criticize and
we're going to scrutinize deeply, people
would have grumbled and accepted it. The
problem is nobody felt the guidelines
were clear and there are guidelines here
that I've read and I think these are
pretty clear but the actual cases that
they brought. I agree with the Silicon
Valley perspective of it felt unclear.
That's the issue.
He was not suing a BaskinRobins trying
to sell and there's nothing in this that
says you can't sell. What they're
telling a few powerful agents is that
they can't buy. There's a difference.
The founder can sell. If someone wants
to buy it, fine. But if it's to Adobe,
then there's a problem. If you're Figma,
you could have sold to someone else, but
you can't sell to Adobe because they
have the dominant market share in that
market. If I make a competitor to
Ticketmaster and it's [__] good and
doesn't charge people absurd fees,
people like it, and Ticket Master offers
to buy me, it would be right of her to
look at if whether this is leading to
consolidated market.
So, those cases are obvious. What about
the non-obvious cases that I mentioned?
I think we keep coming back to Adobe
Figma and being like,
I think the problem is that the the
argument of like ambiguity and
uncertainty here can go on forever. It's
like we have let it stretch in the
opposite direction for so long with so
little oversight that any concession
back in the opposite direction is going
to be viewed by these people as
negative. I do not think the idea that
people were just looking for stricter
guidelines around mergers and
acquisitions is truthful. I I do not
think because if we could simulate if we
could simulate the world where this is
dramatically more clear I do not think
that these people are on the timeline
saying like ah she's actually chill like
there's a there's a 0% chance
no no they will be upset either way for
sure and and I want to be clear here
there is absolutely abuse in the system
that I think the average person if they
sat down were honest and they're not a
scam artist who is you know doing co
crypto offerings or doing spacks that
turn out to be scams most people would
go yeah it's being abused by big There's
a power law that's happening. This is
not fair. This if the pendulum swung way
away from antitrust, it needs to swing
back. And I think most rational people,
most thoughtful people that realize the
long-term health of the ecosystem. You
can't have monopolies. You cannot have
people buying direct competitors. That's
obviously [__] stupid. The pendulum
needed to swing way back. And the
criticism, I think there's a lot of just
douchebags who are doing what you're
saying, which is like, "How dare you
take away our party that we're having?"
But this is the pendulum swinging back a
little. It's just a tiny bit.
That's the problem.
Perry from production here. We're going
to skip ahead a little bit.
We've actually cut like a big big chunk.
Aid and I were going back and forth.
We're realizing we're kind of repeating
ourselves. I I want to just briefly
summarize a few things and then and then
just pose a question which was posed to
me which again I'm trying to kind of
relay at least another perspective.
Again, the pendulum needed to swing
back. There's a lot of douchebags who
are like you Lena Khan is ruining my
life and I think nobody at least in in
my world is sympathetic to those people
who are scamming folks. The question is
for the average person who's trying to
run a business who needs investment
capital upfront to make it work. Many
reasonable businesses can't just
generate profit from day one. I think
that is a reasonable thing to try to
promote and protect and that there were
some reasonable concerns with the way
the FTC felt so broad that what the
types of companies and investment
opportunities that would have been there
before started to close in part because
of what she did. In part, both things
can be true. I also think what is
relevant is just to ask how do you
incentivize innovation just on a high
level and do do we think that you better
incentivize innovation by flooding the
markets with a bunch of money and
allowing a bunch of people to kind of
grift and make money when they really
don't deserve it which we've seen a
whole lot of the past few years but also
you get people who do actually pour
blood sweat into tears to make something
valuable and are able to do that because
they generate capital I'm biased because
many of my close friends have done this
and they aren't the douchebags who make
shitty unprofitable companies or if they
are unprofitable, there's a real thought
behind why and I believe that innovation
is good. Or do you kind of swing to the
other side and say, look, yes,
innovation is good, but you can't have
that at the expense of having giant
companies coming in and buying everybody
up. And you have to push back against
that because innovation will be lost if
they continue to do this long term. And
I totally see both sides. I generally
would lean more on Lena's side. I
generally am sympathetic to this.
There's been so much abuse that
obviously this [__] needs to change. But
I feel like there is a valid side of
this which is like there's real value of
a lot of investor money flowing through
and making it easier for somebody to
innovate and create something valuable.
As a reminder, our lives are a lot
better than they were 200 years ago when
the average life expectancy was 35 and
everybody worked in farming. There's a
lot more to do. But I think that
innovation and developing our society is
incredibly important. And I want our
society to get better. And so in that
high level, how do you encourage
innovation? how much should the
government come in and make those
decisions and say, "Look, we're not
giving you that choice because it can be
immoral." And maybe that is what you
need to do. But I I at least just want
to voice the other side.
Yeah. I mean I I think I I think the the
closing thoughts I have is like on the
front of innovation I think there's a
lot of unexplored things of funding and
pushing innovation that or I shouldn't
say unexplored because I think when you
dig into
mechanisms of innovation and funding
that have existed within America through
the past 80 90 years there's a lot of
things of what allowed the government to
encourage innovation or fund innovation
that we have cut or taken away over time
that spurred a lot of the greatest
technological innovations of the 20th
century that are no longer something
we're pushing forward and I think it's
important to keep innovation in mind
when you make these decisions. The
mechanisms of innovation still have to
exist somehow. How do you motivate
people to make things? Uh and I think
you're right in keeping that in mind. I
think my core like push back to the to
the argument is like I I think when
people
describe their when people describe the
reasons why they were unable to do
something or unable to make the company
they wanted to make. They look to
reasons uh that they they look to blame
things that take away the easiest way
out or the simplest way out and because
it affects them individually and
personally and uh it's very natural to
present those concerns as the the most
pressing concerns. But when you I think
having that be the pervasive argument of
uh this situation when there was an era
of like easy money and funding
beforehand, I think people are more
likely to be upset and point to somebody
like Lena rather than pointing to the
money that allowed you to live the life
you did for the past 101 15 years and
exist within that space just no longer
is there. But there's an argument here
to be had about, you know, lay it all
out. What are the companies that didn't
form or didn't exist because of things
like this? And like what were the actual
conditions of them? Um, and I I want to
see more of those things because we
talked mostly about the victories and
the clear-cut things that she did,
right? And there's so many more cases
and so many more things that that entire
department and agency got to work on.
Um, but I think it's important to like
substantiate that that side of the
argument when something feels more
explicitly clear as the explanation for
the
I could talk about this forever. Let's
add another 30 minutes to the podcast.
Let's keep going.
Yeah.
Uh, we're going to have a Patreon. We
can talk more about it. Listen, I I
think I made my thoughts clear. I just
want to say uh I mean I I we are all
good friends and we are doing I think a
good discussion. I really enjoyed this
discussion. people that listen aren't
always understanding of that and they're
not able to
Let's put it I'll put it simply. Nothing
would make me more [__] annoyed to
read a bunch of YouTube comments uh that
like [__] on Doug or [__] on any of us.
Okay. You can't [__] on the people on
Twitter though cuz there's a bunch of
douchebags who are blind. You can [__]
on opinion. I I just Yeah. I I
I think people just come in with this
idea of like the any back and forth
discussion is going to be something that
is seen as like negative. It's like I
don't know and I want to I want to be
able to have this discussion to like go
back and forth about like all of the
ideas that are a part of this and that's
what makes it fun and exciting to do.
This is how I would talk to you guys off
pod. I'm passionate passionate. Yeah.
So just keep that in mind if you're
going to chime in. It's it's fine to
have your own opinion and it's fine to
disagree with anything here, but just
like I don't know, do it somewhat
respectfully if you can because
Do you think there's going to be a
comment that's like I can't believe Doug
is supporting these capitalist
douchebags. And they follow up and
they're like sorry I just got to
episode. It's actually chill. Sorry.
Like they like already have written the
comment.
Making fun of the the carrots and the
asterisks.
Are we doing carrots and asterisk? The
carrots and the asterisk to end the
comment.
Anyway, fun discussion. Really enjoyed
it.
Yeah. Thank you so much if you
contribute to the Discord as well cuz I
that is just that is so helpful to hear
people's perspective of what's going on
in the world and I think just adds a lot
of just color and nuance to what is
super challenging. It's [__] hard
right now. Yeah.
Thank you for every Thank you to every
positive note. Wait, we end with
something positive.
Oh, I have a single line. A single line.
Never mind then.
What? Two lines.
No, the world's dead.
No, dude. It's It's too We got to end on
something funny.
I have extremely sway. We're end on um I
don't even remember the [__] country.
Bring up slide 11 real quick. Just
really quick. Very end. Slide 11. So,
you know how some countries have really
bad inflation? So, they have instead of
$1 bills, they have thousand dollar
bills and then $10,000.
Oh, yeah. Zin Wavo had like the $40
trillion.
They have $40 trillion bills. Well, uh
Iran has figured out a way around that.
They're going to print a 10,000 bill,
but they're just going to call it a 10.
They're just going to slash three zeros
from every bill, but they will
numerically be 10,000, 50,000, 100,000.
Uh, that is a brilliant new innovation.
That's the lemonade stand of countries.
Like, they solved it.
Is it bad? Is it bad if I think this is
this is kind of a good solution?
It's not. It actually has been tried in
Turkey, Romania, and Zambia, and it does
nothing.
This is what they do.
In fact, there's a quote on line 12. You
bring bring line 12 just real quick.
We'll end on a funny thing.
Um, analysts believe that unless
accompanied by actual inflation control
and financial reforms, this cosmetic
move will fail to alleviate any of the
country's economic problems.
Yeah, no shame.
Which is exactly what has happened in
three other countries that tried it.
It's just a funny way to make your bills
less embarrassing.
Why would it change anything?
Uh, but that's what's happening. So,
funny stuff. Thanks for watching
lemonade.
See you next week.